# API api/articles/publish
## Scientific Articles API
The Scientific Articles Publication API allows the management of publication, updating, consultation and deletion of Scientific Articles.
## Upload a Scientific Article
### Endpoint
1. `POST api/articles/publish`
2. `GET api/articles/publish`
3. `GET api/articles/publish/:id`
4. `PUT api/articles/publish/:id`
5. `DELETE api/articles/publish/:id`

### Description
1. This endpoint allows you to upload a new scientific article.
2. This endpoint allows you to obtain all scientific articles.
3. This endpoint allows you to obtain a scientific article using its ID.
4. This endpoint allows you to update a scientific article.
5. This endpoint allows you to delete a scientific article.

### 'POST' Request Parameters'
`to make the requests, a format "Content-Type:multipart/form-data" was used `
- `file`: PDF file to upload (maximum size: 20 MB 'object').
- `title`: title of the scientific article (string).
- `author`: author of the scientific article (string).
- `publicationDate`: publication date (date) "is generated by the system, not necessary in the request."

###### example of POST to `api/articles/publish`
Content-Type:multipart/form-data 
- {
    "title":"test"
    "author":"test"
    "file": "selecciona tu pdf"
}
### Response 'POST', 'PUT'
###### POST 
- {
    "response": {
        "acknowledged": true,
        "insertedId": "6562706315ab8f29998113ba"
    }
}
###### PUT 
- {
    "response": {
        "_id": "65614074d79ffc68780410e4",
        "title": "test updated",
        "author": "test",
        "publicationDate": "2023-11-25T22:11:06.213Z",
        "file": "base64 del pdf"
    }
}
### Validations 'POST'
##### Required fields

The following fields are required in the application:

- `title`: The title of the article must be of type string with A-Za-z0-9áéíóúÁÉÍÓÚñÑ line break. from 2 to 100 characters
- `author`: The author of the article must be of type string with A-Za-z0-9áéíóúÁÉÍÓÚñÑ line break. from 2 to 50 characters.
- `file`: pdf of the article, only .pdf is supported.
##### Error Messages

Message: "The following fields are missing from the request: title, author"
Status: HTTP:BAD_REQUEST
Message: "Invalid fields in the request: field1, field2"
HTTP Status: BAD_REQUEST